# Heart-Failure-Survival-Analysis-in-R

Globally every year cardiovascular diseases are responsible for killing over 17 million people. When the heart is unable to pump enough blood to meet the needs of the body, heart failures occur. The modern technology has enabled hospitals to record medical data of patients to quantify symptoms, clinical test values, body features etc. and present it to analysts and scientists for analysing patterns and correlations which would otherwise be undetectable by doctors. Through analysing medical records for these features, survival of a patient predicted or effect of a disease on a patient can be studied among many other uses. Due to the stressful modern life and less health consciousness among people along with many such reasons, heart failures have been on the rise. To prepare for the adverse affects and knowing how patients can prolong their lives has been the hour of need among the scientists. 

Knowing what can effect the survival of a patient who has been diagnosed with heart failure, can impact the survival/life of a patient significantly, allowing them to prepare themselves to avoid things which can have adverse effect on their health and allowing them to live longer life which otherwise would not be possible. With motivation of studying features that can affect survival of a patient who has been diagnosed with heart failure, the objective is to analyse heart failure clinical records data set present in the UCI Machine Repository which was donated in 2020. Finding the significant features and performing survival analysis using relevant techniques is the key task.

Data Source : https://archive.ics.uci.edu/dataset/519/heart+failure+clinical+records
